From hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel
minutes, all weekly discussion with
web developer and technologist Scott
Hanselman. This is Lawrence Ryan announcing
show number three 96. Recorded
live Thursday, October 31st, 2013. This episode
of Hansel minutes is brought
to you by Tellerik offering
the best in developer tools
and support online@telerikdotcomandbyfranklins.net makers of
gesture pack a powerful gesture,
recording and recognition system for
Microsoft connect for windows developers
details@gesturepak.com. In this episode, Scott
talks with Douglas Crockford author
and discover of Jason about
bugs discipline, and how to
ride better software. Hi, this
is Scott Hanselman. This is
another episode of Hansel minutes.
I'm here at the angle
brackets conference and the MGM
granted Las Vegas. And I'm
sitting down with Douglas Crockford,
a distinguished architect at PayPal
and the discoverer of Jason.
How are you, sir? I'm
great. Thank you. We were
chatting a little bit earlier
and I was, I think
I was ranting a little
bit, but you made a
really fascinating comment about the
lack of intellectual curiosity in
our industry. Can you talk
a little bit about that?
Yeah. Most of the people
who do what we do
are not aware of where
this stuff came from, not
aware of their own craft.
We have no sense of
history really in software and
part of that's because it
turns over so quickly. But
part of it is that
we've forgotten all this important
knowledge. There's this, I like
the way we teach physics,
whereas the first course of
physics as a history course,
where we look at our
communities and Galileo and Newton
and everybody, and how each
of them enhanced our understanding
of how the universe works.
And it's told in terms
of their stories and their
personalities, because of what they
did was important. We don't
do anything like that for
our own field. It says,
if the stuff all happened
spontaneously or what, there was
this inevitability that it couldn't
have been any other way,
but that's not how it
was that the story of
how we got to where
we are is a really
interesting one. And it's worth
studying. If only to recognize
the consequences of the choices
that we made, which in
some cases caused us to
forgo things which may have
been better in which we
may still end up having
to backtrack to get to,
Is that because of there's
a large number of developers
that did not have a
formal computer science upbringing, for
lack of a better That
wouldn't help because the computer
scientists don't get this stuff
either just generally, there's too
little history in our stuff.
We're not completely without history.
There are places like the
computer history museum in mountain
view, California, which was brilliant.
Everybody should go there. And
there are some collections of
material. Like one of my
favorite websites is a bit
savers.org, where you can find
manuals for all of these
old machines that are completely
forgotten. It turns out there
is brilliance in that stuff.
And even though we don't
pay any attention to it,
we don't celebrate it the
way we should. There's still
brilliant ideas and they're to
be mine. So I sometimes
think of myself as a
software archeologist and I'm trying
to uncover the wisdom of
the ages and age has
only happened a few decades
ago, but it's still important
stuff. What should we do
though in teaching the next
generation? I mean, if I
have young children and they're
playing on a raspberry PI,
should I get them a
Commodore 64 or teach them
about punch cards? I think
it is important to teach
them about punch cards because
there are consequences in that
system that came over. I
would teach him how typewriters
used to work. Cause there's
enormous amount of typewriters, which
survive in our modern machines.
And it's all things which
were a good idea at
one time, a long time
ago, back when typewriters were
driven entirely by the energy
that you could transmit through
your fingertips. And there were
designed decisions that were made
then, which are completely unnecessary
now, but we still keep
it in our systems. And
we still see it in
asking Unicode. Yeah. Why, why
Code for a certain letter
is a code. There were
physical reasons for that and
that, that remains today. Yeah.
Parts of ASCII were optimized
for teletype machines in order
to make the decoding of
the signals that would drive
the little dude that had
the letters on it. Whose
little, the little striking ball.
Yeah, it wasn't, it was
a cylinder. It's a cylinder.
And depending on what the
Selectric, I guess Selectric, well,
there's a, a parallel story.
So IBM was using MC
deck and that was a
completely different code set. But
yeah, the stuff's important. I
always find it funny. The
whole carriage return line feed
arguments, as I guess windows
has picked one and Linux
has picked another and Mack
has picked another. And all
of this was whether or
not we could feed the
paper and then return the
Right that comes directly out
of the teletype that yeah,
one code would return the
carriage and the other would
roll the paper. And the
old teletypes were so slow
that they really needed two
codes. Cause it took a
while for the carriage to
get returned. And while that
was happening, you could then
roll the paper. And so
having it as two allowed
you to put in that
delay without actually having to
put any logic in, See,
I find that stuff fascinating,
but it, our computer scientists
who are being taught by
professors in school or whether
they are on the job
trained, not being taught this
because there's no perceived value
Perhaps, but, but then we
see it go wrong. And
other places like what should
be the code and align.
There was an argument about
that many years ago. And
some people said it should
be carriage return. And other
people said, no, it should
be line feed. And some
people probably not. The smartest
guys in the room said
it should be both because
that's how it's always worked.
You know, the traditionalist, the
care's return guys were looking
at it from the human
point of view. When I
want to end it, I
hit three turnkey. The other,
the line feed guys were
thinking of it from it,
from the printer's point of
view, when the printer wants
to go to the next
line, it does align feed
and the committee couldn't agree.
You know? So the way
the internet works today is
you have to have both
that's the mutually disagreeable compromise
that the guys who want
to carriage return didn't want
the line feed guys to
get it because that meant
they were wrong and vice-a-versa,
and this way everybody, And
this to this day, this
remains the number one issue
that hits me on a
day to day basis when
checking in and out from
get of repositories that are
on a different system than
mine. And I'm thinking about
this several times a week.
Yeah. And it's completely unnecessary,
but it's because we didn't
understand this thing. And so
going forward, understanding mistakes that
we made historically gives us
a way to think about
how to make things correct
going forward, except we tend
not to learn the history.
And so we tend to
repeat the mistakes. Sometimes we
learn early programming languages in
school from a and that,
and they think that that's
historical context, they'll say, well,
here, we're going to learn
assembler or we're going to
learn, Oh, Kamler, Haskell. And
then that's going to be
our entree into some, some
newer or whatever, the new
shiny programming languages do you
think we need to connect
software to hardware more? Should
we be talking about soldering
and physics and electrons at
that level? And then work
our way up to software.
I don't know that we
need to go that far
down, but I think it
is important to understand how
instruction sets work because ultimately
that's where software is grounded
and everything else is transformations
or abstractions. On top of
that, and many of our
languages were very strongly influenced
by the kinds of machines
they were going to be
resting upon. But modern machines
are architecturally quite different from
those, but our languages are
still in the old paradigm.
There are a lot of
things which we do in
our languages, which I think
work against what should be
our primary goal of writing
software that works well, that
has no bugs in. And
very often I see programmers
pursuing other goals, which are
incompatible with that one. And
so that becomes a subordinate
rather than primary. So you're
saying that we're where our
head is not right. Our
priorities are wrong. Our goal
is to write software that
has fewer mistakes, But it
should be, but our, all
of our tools tend to
be working against us. So
let me tell you about
a bug I made. I
wrote a Chasen library in
Java many years ago as
a reference implementation. And in
that library, I had a
variable called index, which was
counting the number of characters
into the text that was
being parsed. And it was
used primarily for error messages.
So if there was a
syntax error, I would say
at this location, we found
a problem and I made
it in the end because
that seemed to be the
right thing. And then allows
you to have a text
that's up to two gigabytes
in size, which at that
time was still a pretty
big disc drive today. It's
not today, it's Ram, right.
Which is wonderful. You know,
Moore's law has been working
for us, but at the
time I couldn't imagine anyone
would ever have a text
bigger than two gigabytes. Last
year, someone wrote to me
and said that they had
a text, which was considerably
bigger than that. And that
they had a syntax error
past two megabytes. And so
my package misreported where the
thing was, So they had
a JavaScript file that was
larger than two adjacent file
of more than two gigs.
Yeah. Which amazed me because
when I designed Jason, I
didn't expect there to ever
be an adjacent text bigger
than a couple of K.
And I intended it as
a message passing thing to
go over the network, something
highly interactive. So I, you
can't anticipate all the future
uses of the things that
you do. Right. But if
you had said it to
two terabytes five years from
now, someone would send you
about their multi terabyte. Jason.
Yeah. I'm not thinking that
it's going to be such
a problem. I asked the
guy, how long did it
take to actually parse that?
And it took awhile. So
Moore's law is not working
that well. So I don't
think I have to worry
about that. If I'd made
it a long, it wouldn't
have been a problem. So
it's nice that it took
over a decade for this
bog in my program to
be revealed, but looking at
why it was a bug,
it was because Java gave
me a choice of six
types that I could choose.
And by giving me that
choice, I could choose the
wrong one. And in this
case I did. And so
this is a trap that
the language is setting for
you. The bargain it's suggesting
is you can save memory
by picking the smallest possible
type that'll contain your value.
And the flip side of
that bargain is that, and
if you get it wrong,
if you pick one that's
too small, then disaster happens.
And there's no reason to
be making that trade off
many years ago. It did.
So if you were programming
the Atari 2,600, the VCs
that machine had 128 bytes
of Ram in it, and
that included the stack and
included all the buffers, Vos,
everything fit in 128 bytes.
So in that machine, you
really paid attention to how
big a variable was, but
we've had a lot, many,
many doublings of memory capacity
since then we now have
gigabyte memories. It is not
worth our time to try
to figure out what the
right type for variable is.
But every time we sit
down to write even the
most trivial of programs, we
type into an account, do
I need an end? And
then the processor power that
requires my brain. Yeah. Yeah.
It shouldn't be a bite.
Yeah. Or maybe a U
N D. Yeah. I can.
One more extra bit. If,
if it's unsigned, which is
a total waste of time,
you know, in terms of
just measuring our own productivity,
there's no reason to be
doing that. And then it
gets worse because there's this
opportunity to have overflow and
the way numbers overflow is,
has a lot of history
to it. So when they're
there a number of models
for what should happen, if
you try to put too
big, a number into a
variable, one says, you should
get an interrupt. You should
throw an exception, which would
be reasonable. Another says you
should get Nan or some
other signal that says that's
not an adequate value. And
that's okay. Too. Some systems,
it saturates, it gets clipped
to a maximum possible value.
That's really good for, for
signal processing and other applications.
Instead, we do the worst
possible thing, which is we
flip around to a maximally
negative number, but because it
depends on other aspects of
the computation, we can't even
predict what that number is
going to be. So you
can't test specifically for that
value. It's the worst possible
thing. And the reason we
do it that way is
because in the fifties, when
they were starting to figure
out how to build CPS,
someone figured out that if
we put in a compliment
and use a complimentary notation,
then we don't have to
implement, subtract. When we want
to subtract with simply compliment
an ad and ignore the
overflow. And that works Someone
micro optimized. Well at the
time it was a reasonable
optimization cause Gates were really
expensive. So in order to,
and every gate increased the
unreliability of the machine because
they were built out tubes.
And, you know, as much
as you can simplify the
architecture that made it more
viable, have more uptime. So
it was a good idea
at the time, but then
it got baked into Fortran
and there was an expectation
that in order to be
portable, we want to keep
this crazy thing going on.
And then then got into,
see where it's even worse,
where people expect to get
a free modular operation if
they intentionally overflow a variable.
So we're stuck. So it's
an architecture. So we've got
the effect, compounds the trap
of having too many institutes
from. So in JavaScript, we
only have one number type,
which is great. I think
JavaScript is actually smarter than
most of the other languages
in doing that because there's
only one number type. You
waste no time thinking about
what type to use and
you can't ever pick the
wrong one. And yet JavaScript
is under tremendous pressure from
the community to add into
it because people want this
behavior because they have prior
to their experience with JavaScript,
maybe never known another language
in which you didn't have
the option of, of having
ants. And so they want
to dumb it down. It's
difficult for us to see
that JavaScript is actually the
future. It's where we want
to be going. The thing
that JavaScript got wrong was
it chose the wrong one
number type, it chose binary
floating point. It should pick
the decimal floating point, but
the idea that it was
just one that was big
enough to hold all the
numbers that you could ever
do was correct. Yeah. It's
fairly, forward-thinking given the context
It was. And it was
done in that language because
the language was originally intended
for beginners. And in order
to make it easy for
them, let's just give them
one kind of number. And
that's all they do the
original basic to the same
thing. So it's not a
new idea. Microsoft kind of
screwed basic up by adding
in its various forms eventually.
And so it made it
possible to waste time micro
optimizing, and it also made
it possible to introduce more
errors and all of our
other languages do that too.
It's interesting though. But whenever
I think of things that
I don't like about JavaScript
numbers are not, my problem
dates are where my pain
lives in JavaScript. JavaScript's dates
were based on Chavez dates
and yeah, I'm not aware
of anybody who's ever gotten
dates, right? It's yeah. It's
all the, it's the serializing,
it's the string formats for
dates that get so frustrating
with time zones and the
Z in the middle and
the T and getting all
of that. Just, just so
Right. Well, that's not JavaScript's
fault. That's ISOs fault. No,
that's a valid JavaScript Is
just implementing what I saw
dead. And I think for
its problems, the ISO format
is a big step forward
because it's at least a
single format that we can
all argue about. That's a
good point. So you're saying
that the tools are, are
kind of working against us,
is it, is it we,
that need to have more
discipline? We do. So one
thing we can do is
demand programming, language languages, which
have fewer affordances for going
off the rails. We tend
to, as a community to
do the opposite, we want
more ways of, You're saying
you want the programming language
to give us less rope.
Yeah. I want it to
be simpler. I want it
to be more constrained. I
want it to be harder
to get things wrong. I
want it to be simple
because the, the biggest problem
we're we're dealing with is
managing complexity. That's most of
what we do, complexity is
complicated. And so having complexity
in our languages actually doesn't
help us. There's no conservation
of complexity in that. If
we put more complexity in
the language that our programs
get simpler, that doesn't happen,
Just put a compliment and
it'll flip the whole thing
over, and then it just
got, become simple. Yeah. Unfortunately
doesn't simple. Isn't the compliment
of, of complicated. So, you
know, I'm, I'm a minimalist
in that respect. So I
want our languages to be
as small as possible. Having
a lot of features in
the language is really attractive
to us emotionally, but doesn't
actually help us. One of
the things that a lot
of programmers get wrong is
they think their job is
to identify every feature of
the language, master it, and
then demonstrate that mastery in
everything they write. And that
turns out to be an
extremely bad practice. And what
I recommend instead is figure
out what parts of the
language are most reliable or
most consistent with being able
to write correctly and use
only that That is really
interesting because I'm thinking to
myself about the thing that
feeds programmers that makes us
move forward. New features bolted
onto the side of the
language. You know, whether it
be Lincoln C-sharp or new
ways that, you know, there's
even new features that are
being added to JavaScript. And
then they say, Oh, and
I have another tool in
my tool belt. We like
to say, but we never
seem to celebrate the removal
of tools from our tool
belt. Well, and removal is
really hard because the problem
with the things that you
want to remove, isn't that
they're useless. That's that they're
dangerous in that and not
dangerous in that they're going
to blow your hands off,
but just Fe increase maybe
slightly the likelihood that you're
going to make mistakes. And,
you know, it's easy to
get into arguments about that
stuff, you know, or, you
know, I, I use one
of those dangerous features, but
in this particular instance, I
think I'm using it correctly
and it is not an
error and that's likely true,
but I think it is
still better that you had
not done that and had
written it the simpler more
reliable way instead Are these
are these like known factual
things where one could say,
I have removed a feature
from a language, or I
have made this language minimal,
and this is mathematically true
that it is better. Or
these are you describing a
language that is a very
opinionated language where lots of
people with opinions, the internet
are going to say, no,
that's that's nonsense that guy's
wrong. Well, these arguments are
almost always exclusively emotional. And
I used to make those
same arguments. The thing that
changed me was developing JS
lint, which has a lending
program for JavaScript. And that
program turns out to be
a lot smarter than I
am about programming languages. And
cause my intuitions were all
wrong. I didn't develop that
program intending to enforce my
opinions on other people. It
told me what my opinions
should be. That if I
want to be able to
statically analyze a program and
help determine the presence of
bugs in it, I have
to avoid certain features because
those features will tend to
mask bugs or are undecidable
and in a static analysis
as to whether they're being
used correctly or not. So
whenever I found there was
a feature which has one
of these confusing aspects to
it, where it's easily misused.
And if there is a
different feature, which does the
same thing, but it doesn't
have that ambiguity then use
a good one and never
use the bad one. And
then you don't have to
decide it At the beginning
before we talked, you said
that you were not the
inventor of Jason, but rather
the discover. And then you
described yourself as a software
archaeologist. When, you know, when
someone is talking about like
Michael Angelo pulled David out
of the stone, like he
was inside of this rock
and I had to just
let him out. It uses
a different part of the
brain to discover that the
program wants to be a
certain way, then creating the
program from your, Your own
hands. I've used the, the,
the Michael Angelo metaphor in
describing what Jaslyn does and
how it came about it.
There is an ideal language
trapped inside of JavaScript. And
I just had to chip
away the bad parts. Is
that a using a different
part of the brain? Is
there a whole class of
developer, whole generation as it
were that's maybe not thinking
about it, right? Yeah. We,
we tend to be very
emotional about syntax in the
same way that the fashion
industry is emotional about fashion.
You know, they'll argue about,
should there be pleats or
not, should it be cuffs
or not things which make
no sense to us, right.
You know, how high should
heels be soft, Queer pleats.
I'm trying to think of
different language features that I
would describe as software pleats.
We are so into that.
So that part of the
brain, we don't use it
for fashion. So we use
it for language features. Yes.
Cause we have no fashion
sense as we sit here
in our sneakers, in our
tee shirts. Exactly. And so
we think we, because we
are the ambassadors to the
computer, which is this ultra
rational machinery. We imagine ourselves
also to be ultra rational.
And we're not, we're deeply
emotional about things like syntax.
And that's one of the
reasons why lint makes people
cry because it's telling you
that you can improve your
program by doing these things.
And our number one objective,
because we want to be
writing good programs that are
free of error. We should
go great. I need that
advice. But instead, no, we
become really defensive and emotional
as in, no, you can't
tell me to do that.
You have no, right. I
have a right to use
this feature. Someone once complained
to me that he should
be able to write his
programs in excrement if he
wanted to, in order to
have him express himself as
an artist. You know, so
he was telling me that
he has a right to
write programs, which are literally
crap. I think we should
be, we should have a
higher purpose than that. I've
said before that I felt
that sometimes programmers and I
have a tendency and it's
probably not a good habit
to refer to younger programmers
because now that I'm becoming
middle-aged, I am thinking of
myself, having moved from one
generation to another, have forgotten
why it is exactly that
we are writing software. It's
not necessarily an intellectual pursuit.
It's not necessarily the pursuit
of poetry or haiku. You
know, I know like some
Ruby assists consider themselves to
be trying to write a
perfect program that is haiku.
Ultimately we're trying to solve
a business problem presumably, or
for academic try to solve
an academic problem. So correctness
seems to be the thing
we should be striving for
Correctness and maintainability and anything
that we do that works
against those is counterproductive. At
least. Why do we spend
so much time on opinions
and white space and where
the curly braces go? And
the semi-colons Because we literally
don't know what we're doing
as a, as a, as
an industry, as a community.
Yeah. That we are very
smart people. You know, you
have to be smart in
order to do this work.
And so we'll give ourselves
points for smartness and give
ourselves passes on everything else.
So what's our takeaway. How
do I program better? Do
I need to change the
way? I think, Yeah. You
need to, to keep in
mind that approaching perfection is
most important thing you can
do. And that perfection is
hard, particularly for deeply flawed
human beings. Like us. I'm
a deeply flawed human being,
but I'm a programmer and
I'm pretty good at it,
but it's not a natural
thing. And I do it
because I enjoy it. I
find it pleasurable, but it
requires a lot of discipline.
And one of the things
that we tend to do
is ignore our mistakes. What
we'll go down into the
debugger and we go down
into this cold, hurtful place
where we do that work.
I call it the abyss.
Normal people cannot do that.
They cannot go down the
air with the confidence that
they're going to come back
alive. We do it all
the time. And when we
come up, there's this exhilaration.
I did it. I went
down there, I found the
bug, I killed it and
I survived and I'm back.
And in this euphoria, we
have an amnesia. We forget
that we did that. And
so as a result, we
tend not to learn from
our mistakes. No, you know,
Oh, I did that again.
Get on the head. I
forgot. It's going to happen
again. We do this all
the time. Yeah. Yeah. I've,
I've talked about developers having
20 years of experience, but
it's unfortunate if it's the
same year, 20 times, We
do that a lot. Yeah.
There's a lot of Groundhog's
day in, in the way
that we work. So one
thing you can do is
every time you make a
mistake, write it down, keep
it journal. Yeah. You need
to develop self awareness of
how you make mistakes. You
set that up as a
bug journal. Yeah. I like
that. So what would I
write about the bug? Like
what, what, how would I
describe it? Like the, the
algorithmic issue that came up
or Yeah. So Donald Knute
wrote a brilliant article about
the bugs in tech. So
he kept a bug journalist.
He was developing that program.
One of the biggest programs
he wrote in his career,
one of our best programmers
and he made lots of
mistakes and he categorized them.
So he developed letter codes
indicating the different kinds of
things, you know? So the
typos were distinguished from the
algorithm errors and so on
and they sorted it and
produces the results. That's a
really good article. And the
important thing, isn't his findings
about what kind of bugs
are more common? It's that,
that as an exercise is
so useful because we tend
to not learn from our
mistakes and the way you
learn from them is by
paying attention to them. Yeah.
You can't cut something unless
you've been measuring the whole
Well, that's the other thing
we do is we do
a lot of cutting without
measuring. One of the things
that drives us instead of
correctness is performance. Micro benchmarks
for all performances is important,
but it's less important. It's
more important that it be
correct. And so there's this
thing that we tend to
do, which is, you know,
micro optimizing, trying to cut
time out of code, even
in code where it absolutely
doesn't make any difference, right.
That our machines are so
fast that unless you're in
the middle of loop of
something, that's going to take
a long time. Optimizing is
simply a waste of time.
And generally in any project,
we have a limited amount
of time in which we
should do optimization. We need
to be really careful where
we do that optimization. You
need to optimize your optimizing.
Yeah. It's amazing. How many
times perfectly rational people will
put a four loop from
one to 10,000 around a
piece of code that just
doesn't matter when the network
latency is an order of
magnitude, more than anything you
could ever do to that
four loop. Yeah. The, the
first law of, of optimization
is look at where the
cost is. And for us,
that usually means where's the
time being spent, optimizing anything,
which isn't the principal place,
where the time is being
spent is a waste of
time. But we do that
all the time and it
works against us in that
we are in doing those
kinds of optimizations. You remove
generality from the code and
by removing that generality, you
make it harder to test.
You, make it harder to
maintain you, make it harder
to be confident that it's
correct. So we're actually working
against our, what should be
our principal goal. Sometimes you
have to optimize and sometimes
you have to do terrible
things, but you should measure
carefully before you do that,
to be sure that in
fact, you even have to,
When we were speaking earlier,
you told me a story
about the GoTo statement and
how developers argue and make
their arguments understood and how
ineffective arguments can potentially have
decade long ramifications. Could you
talk about the GoTo statement?
Yeah. So in 68, Dykstra
wrote a letter to the
communications of the ACM, which
was titled GoTo statement considered
harmful. And in it, he
describes GoTo statements as being
disastrous. And then that we
should get rid of them.
It turned out getting rid
of them was a good
idea, but they weren't disastrous
that there were good programs
that had go tos and
that worked fine. So his
charge that simply by having
go tos that was causing
destruction was, was not true.
And so there were a
lot of people who were
emotionally invested in the GoTo
statement, who thought they were
being completely logical about their
defense of the statement. And
they looked at Dykstras claim
of destruction and, and said,
well, that's obviously not true.
Therefore his conclusion was obviously
not true. Dykstra was trying,
trying to change a paradigm.
And it, in retrospect doesn't
look like a paradigm shift.
Cause we're just getting rid
of a statement, which at
that point in time, we
didn't need anymore. That there
was a theory that if
you have, if you add
ELLs and while to a
programming language, most of the
needs for GoTo go away,
but not all of them
said the defenders of the
GoTo. And they came up
with lots of other arguments.
Like you're saying that we
cannot tell when GoTo is
appropriate or not. And so
you're gonna take it away
from us. That is an
insult to us that you're
challenging our competence and our
intelligence. And you're wrong about
that. Cause we are competent
and intelligent people. They made
arguments about tradition. You know,
we have always had GoTo
in our language or comfortable
with it. It works for
us. We're making weddings writing
with go-tos. You cannot take
it away from us needing
you. You know, you can't
destroy our livelihoods. They made
arguments about personal expression. We
are artists and we express
ourselves with our go tos
and you can't take that
away from us. They made
the argument that nobody wants
the GoTo statement away taken
away, which was ridiculous because
the reason they said that
was because someone had suggested
that very thing. So saying
nobody wants that is obviously
wrong. There are some other
guys who weren't quite as
mathematically challenged, who said, instead,
the majority of us want
to keep the GoTo and
they, which is less obviously
wrong, but they said that
without any data to support
it. And they continued saying
that even when they were
no longer the majority, which,
and all of that completely
missed the point that it
doesn't matter what the majority
wants. The argument should have
been. We're trying to write
programs that have fewer errors
in them. And it suggested
that by getting rid of
this statement, we'll accomplish that,
is that something we want
to do? Is that a
true claim or not? That's
what the argument should have
been instead. It was about
all those other things, which
are ultimately all emotional. Right?
I think that that's an
important lesson for everyone to
remember that you are not
your code. And if you
take an argument about someone's
code, even a friend or
someone you work with, and
it starts with something like
disastrous, a big specious declarative
statement about how, you know,
your code sucks, then it's
going to go completely off
the rails. Yeah. Dykstra started
the argument in a really
bad way. Another thing he
said was we observed that
programmers who use lots of
go tos are inferior to
programmers who don't, what he
could have said was programs
that have lots of go-tos
are inferior, but he didn't.
He made it personal in
the first sentence of his
letter. Wow. You know, it's,
you know, it's just really
arrogant. Right. Alan Kay said
that arrogance is measured in
nano Dykstras no, we should
love the coder, but hate
the code. Right. And that
should have been his argument,
but he didn't, he made
it personal too. So it's
maybe not surprising that they
countered with personal arguments. Yeah.
I tried it. I am
not my code. I try
very hard to make sure
that other people do not
feel that they are they're
Cody there, but it's hard
in the world of pull
requests and Twitter. It's very
easy to take these things
personally. Well, thanks so much
for chatting with me today
and I'll put in the
show notes, links to your
Google plus and your website
and you know, things that
you've worked on as well
as Jason link. Jason lint.
Thank you so much. Thank
you. This has been another
episode of Hanselminutes and we'll
see you again next week.